README.md, before:

# 🐍 AI-Adaptive Snake Game

A browser-based implementation of the classic Snake game enhanced with artificial intelligence capabilities. The system learns from player behavior and dynamically adapts game elements including food placement, difficulty, and visual feedback to create a personalized gaming experience.

## 🎮 [Play the Game Online](https://your-username.github.io/ai-adaptive-snake-game/)

*Replace the URL above with your actual GitHub Pages URL after deployment*

## Project Structure

```
├── index.html              # Main HTML file with canvas and UI
├── js/                     # JavaScript modules
│   ├── main.js            # Main entry point and game initialization
│   ├── gameEngine.js      # Game engine and main game loop
│   ├── snake.js           # Snake entity logic
│   ├── food.js            # Food entity logic
│   ├── aiEngine.js        # AI behavior analysis and adaptation
│   ├── renderer.js        # Canvas rendering and visual effects
│   ├── storageManager.js  # Local storage persistence
│   └── types.js           # Type definitions and validation
├── tests/                  # Test files
│   ├── setup.js           # Jest test setup and mocks
│   └── basic.test.js      # Basic project structure tests
├── package.json           # Project configuration and dependencies
└── README.md              # This file
```

## Features

- **Classic Snake Gameplay**: Move the snake to consume food and grow longer
- **AI Learning**: The system learns from player movement patterns
- **Adaptive Difficulty**: Game difficulty adjusts based on player performance
- **Smart Food Placement**: AI places food strategically based on player behavior
- **Visual Feedback**: Dynamic visual effects that respond to game intensity
- **Data Persistence**: Game data and AI learning persist across sessions

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (for running tests and development server)
- Modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Edge)

### Installation

1. Clone or download the project
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

### Running the Game

#### Option 1: Play Online
Visit the [live demo](https://your-username.github.io/ai-adaptive-snake-game/) (replace with your GitHub Pages URL)

#### Option 2: Run Locally
1. Start a local server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
2. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5500`

#### Option 3: Direct File Access
Simply open `index.html` in your web browser (some features may be limited due to CORS restrictions)

### Development

- **Run tests**: `npm test`
- **Run tests with coverage**: `npm test:coverage`
- **Run property-based tests**: `npm test:property`
- **Run unit tests**: `npm test:unit`
- **Lint code**: `npm lint`

## Game Controls

- **Arrow Keys**: Control snake movement
- **Start Game**: Begin a new game session
- **Pause**: Pause/resume the current game
- **Restart**: Start a new game immediately

## AI Features

The AI engine analyzes player behavior in real-time:

1. **Movement Tracking**: Records all player movements and builds behavioral patterns
2. **Heatmap Generation**: Creates frequency maps of player movement preferences
3. **Adaptive Food Placement**: Places food in challenging or accessible locations based on player skill
4. **Dynamic Difficulty**: Adjusts game speed and challenge level based on performance
5. **Visual Adaptation**: Modifies visual intensity and effects based on game state

## Technical Details

- **Framework**: Vanilla JavaScript with ES6 modules
- **Rendering**: HTML5 Canvas API
- **Testing**: Jest with fast-check for property-based testing
- **Storage**: Browser localStorage for data persistence
- **Performance**: Targets 60 FPS with real-time AI processing

## 🚀 Deployment

This game is deployed using GitHub Pages and can be played directly in your browser without any installation.

### Deploy Your Own Copy

1. Fork this repository
2. Go to Settings → Pages in your GitHub repository
3. Select "Deploy from a branch" and choose "main" branch
4. Your game will be available at `https://your-username.github.io/repository-name/`

## 📊 Test Results

- ✅ **89 tests passing** across 8 test suites
- ✅ **100% functionality coverage** - All core features working
- ✅ **Performance**: Exceeds 60 FPS requirement
- ✅ **Cross-browser compatibility**: Chrome, Firefox, Edge
- ✅ **Property-based testing**: 16 correctness properties validated

## 🎯 Development Status

✅ **COMPLETED** - Fully functional game with all features implemented:
- Core Snake gameplay mechanics
- AI learning and adaptation system
- Dynamic difficulty adjustment
- Smart food placement algorithms
- Visual feedback and effects
- Data persistence across sessions
- Comprehensive test suite

## License

MIT License - see package.json for details

Commit message:

Update README with correct GitHub Pages URL
- Updated live demo links to point to actual deployment
- Game is now accessible at: https://niranjan252005.github.io/snake-game-with-ai-twist/

README.md, after:

# 🐍 AI-Adaptive Snake Game

A browser-based implementation of the classic Snake game enhanced with artificial intelligence capabilities. The system learns from player behavior and dynamically adapts game elements including food placement, difficulty, and visual feedback to create a personalized gaming experience.

## 🎮 [Play the Game Online](https://niranjan252005.github.io/snake-game-with-ai-twist/)

🌟 **Live Demo**: Your AI-Adaptive Snake Game is deployed and ready to play!

## Project Structure

```
├── index.html              # Main HTML file with canvas and UI
├── js/                     # JavaScript modules
│   ├── main.js            # Main entry point and game initialization
│   ├── gameEngine.js      # Game engine and main game loop
│   ├── snake.js           # Snake entity logic
│   ├── food.js            # Food entity logic
│   ├── aiEngine.js        # AI behavior analysis and adaptation
│   ├── renderer.js        # Canvas rendering and visual effects
│   ├── storageManager.js  # Local storage persistence
│   └── types.js           # Type definitions and validation
├── tests/                  # Test files
│   ├── setup.js           # Jest test setup and mocks
│   └── basic.test.js      # Basic project structure tests
├── package.json           # Project configuration and dependencies
└── README.md              # This file
```

## Features

- **Classic Snake Gameplay**: Move the snake to consume food and grow longer
- **AI Learning**: The system learns from player movement patterns
- **Adaptive Difficulty**: Game difficulty adjusts based on player performance
- **Smart Food Placement**: AI places food strategically based on player behavior
- **Visual Feedback**: Dynamic visual effects that respond to game intensity
- **Data Persistence**: Game data and AI learning persist across sessions

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (for running tests and development server)
- Modern web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Edge)

### Installation

1. Clone or download the project
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

### Running the Game

#### Option 1: Play Online
Visit the [live demo](https://niranjan252005.github.io/snake-game-with-ai-twist/)

#### Option 2: Run Locally
1. Start a local server:
   ```bash
   npm start
   ```
2. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5500`

#### Option 3: Direct File Access
Simply open `index.html` in your web browser (some features may be limited due to CORS restrictions)

### Development

- **Run tests**: `npm test`
- **Run tests with coverage**: `npm test:coverage`
- **Run property-based tests**: `npm test:property`
- **Run unit tests**: `npm test:unit`
- **Lint code**: `npm lint`

## Game Controls

- **Arrow Keys**: Control snake movement
- **Start Game**: Begin a new game session
- **Pause**: Pause/resume the current game
- **Restart**: Start a new game immediately

## AI Features

The AI engine analyzes player behavior in real-time:

1. **Movement Tracking**: Records all player movements and builds behavioral patterns
2. **Heatmap Generation**: Creates frequency maps of player movement preferences
3. **Adaptive Food Placement**: Places food in challenging or accessible locations based on player skill
4. **Dynamic Difficulty**: Adjusts game speed and challenge level based on performance
5. **Visual Adaptation**: Modifies visual intensity and effects based on game state

## Technical Details

- **Framework**: Vanilla JavaScript with ES6 modules
- **Rendering**: HTML5 Canvas API
- **Testing**: Jest with fast-check for property-based testing
- **Storage**: Browser localStorage for data persistence
- **Performance**: Targets 60 FPS with real-time AI processing

## 🚀 Deployment

This game is deployed using GitHub Pages and can be played directly in your browser without any installation.

### Deploy Your Own Copy

1. Fork this repository
2. Go to Settings → Pages in your GitHub repository
3. Select "Deploy from a branch" and choose "main" branch
4. Your game will be available at `https://your-username.github.io/repository-name/`

## 📊 Test Results

- ✅ **89 tests passing** across 8 test suites
- ✅ **100% functionality coverage** - All core features working
- ✅ **Performance**: Exceeds 60 FPS requirement
- ✅ **Cross-browser compatibility**: Chrome, Firefox, Edge
- ✅ **Property-based testing**: 16 correctness properties validated

## 🎯 Development Status

✅ **COMPLETED** - Fully functional game with all features implemented:
- Core Snake gameplay mechanics
- AI learning and adaptation system
- Dynamic difficulty adjustment
- Smart food placement algorithms
- Visual feedback and effects
- Data persistence across sessions
- Comprehensive test suite

## License

MIT License - see package.json for details
